So after hearing about the different use cases
for responsive images, let's now implement
density switching in art direction in HTML.
In this lecture, you will learn how to use
the source set attribute on the image and
source HTML elements together with density descriptors.
And also how and why to use the picture element for
art direction with media queries in HTML.
So this lecture will be about responsive images in HTML.
Now what's the difference between images in HTML and in CSS?
Well basically, with images in HTML, I simply mean all the
IMG text, so all the image text, where we specify
a source for the image.
So for example, here this logo that we have here
this is an image, then these three images here
we also specify them in the HTML.
Then, these here I think are also images
and then also this logo.
So that's images in HTML.
And in CSS of course, it's when we use background image.
So such as this one,
these ones here, so they are also background images.
And so that's a difference.
So for these images here we will use CSS.
For responsive images and for the other ones,
we will do stuff in HTML.
So I'm starting with HTML because there are actually
more technologies for doing responsive images in HTML.
And the one we're going to use this on is for now,
this one here, okay?
So we're going to do art direction and density switching
on this logo down here in the footer.
So, how do we do that?
And I'm going to start with density switching
because that's actually the most simple one.
So remember the philosophy behind density switching.
Basically, what we're going to do is to serve
a larger version of the same image for high resolution
screens and serve a smaller version of the same image
for a low density screen, right?
And so basically, we need to have two images,
one for each of the resolutions.
And actually I do have that so let's take a look.
So logo green 1x and 2x.
So 1x and 2x.
Right now this is the one that
we're using, so 2x and that has 300 pixels in width.
So let's just take a look at this one here.
So here you see, it's the 2x and here in the dev tools,
you can also see that the natural size of the image here
is 300 pixels, right?
So what I showed you in the code editor but that it's
displaying with only 150 pixels here on the screen, okay?
And that makes sense because that's actually the
width that we specified over here in 15 rem, right?
So it makes sense that the 2x image has exactly double
the width of the width that it is
displayed on the screen, right?
Because high resolution screens use two physical pixels
to display one display in our design, okay?
So that's what we talked about in the last lecture.
This is just a recap of that.
So this is the 2x image
and this is the one that we want to display
on low resolution screens, the 1x image, okay?
And so you see here that it has a width of only 150 pixels.
So, how do we do that?
Well, we can keep using the image element, we just
have to change the source attribute to source set, okay?
And so now we can specify two images.
And the first one I'm going to specify is image
logo green 1x and now we can put here something
called a density descriptor, okay?
And a density descriptor is very simple.
I'll just write 1x for this one here
and then 2x for this one.
So now this source set attribute here allows
the browser to choose the best of these two images here,
so this one and this one, according to the screen
that is used by the user to display the webpage.
So if it's a low density screen, it will use this image
here, okay, because we said that this image
should be used for a low resolution screen
and when a device has a high resolution screen,
then it will use this image because we said so,
because we said that this image should be used for
high resolution.
So that's the 2x density descriptor for that.
And that's actually it.
So with this image, with this source set attribute,
we give the browser the choice to choose
the best image for each situation.
Now the results of this are a bit difficult to
demonstrate here in the browser, okay?
So what we see here happening, is that it says here
now current source and then we see that it's logo green 2x
and that's because I'm using a high resolution screen here
but if you're using a low resolution screen,
then it will probably say logo green 1x for you, okay?
And if you then wanted this to work on a high
resolution screen, well then you need a device to
actually test this out, okay?
So with this we just have to really trust that it's going
to work as long as we do everything in the correct way,
okay?
So this is density switching in HTML
and that's the most easiest use case for responsive images.
Now, next up, we want to do art direction.
And remember what that is?
Well, what we want to do with art direction is
to tell the browser to use one image on one screen width
and another image on another screen width, okay?
So we want to make images depend on the screen width.
And the solution for that is to use an HTML element
called picture, okay?
And actually this is where I'm going to put this
class now, this footer logo class.
So I want this to be here right now.
So that will now be our image basically, okay?
And what do we have inside of the picture?
First off, we have to specify a source element
and we have to specify an image as well.
And these are basically the different options that
we're going to give the browser for images to display.
Now we always have to use at least one image here
and zero or more sources.
But zero sources doesn't make any sense
so we want at least one source and then followed by an image
which is basically the fallback.
And the image that we want is actually this one, okay?
And now we can do something very similar with the source.
So once again we can use source set in here
and then the media attribute and that is
where the real magic happens here, okay?
So in the media attribute,
we can basically put a CSS media query, okay?
So let's start by doing that and let's actually use
the one that we used in our design as well.
So I'm going to use this one for the phone, okay?
So we want the art direction to happen
at the breakpoint of the phone.
Okay, and that's the way that we do it.
So we specified the max width of 600 pixels
in the this case, so this one here means 600 pixels.
And then we say the image that we want here
in case that the width is lower than 600 pixels,
so just like in media queries, okay?
Alright, so what do we put here?
Well, logo green small.
Let me just show that to you.
So we have logo green small and once again we have
the 1x version so this one here
and we have the 2x version, okay?
And so we can actually do that same thing as we did before
so we can use our density descriptors again
so we say that if it's a low resolution screen,
we want to use this small image here with 1x
and if it's a high resolution screen,
and let me just copy this,
then we want a high resolution image,
so the larger image in that case.
Okay, and that's actually it.
So let's recap what we're doing here.
We started by using the picture element
in which we can basically specify
multiple sources for one image
and then in the source element, we can actually
write a media query just like we do in CSS.
And so with this we force the browser to
use this image source set here, this image source set
in case that max width is less than 600 pixels,
and in case it's not, so if it's larger than 600 pixels,
then the browser is forced to use this image source set.
So that is called art direction,
Different images for different viewport width, alright?
Now then inside each of these sources, we then do
density switching and that's why we're using the
source set attribute instead of the source attribute.
And so here we give the browser a choice to use
either the high resolution or low resolution image
according to the screen which the webpage is viewed on.
So let's test that out.
And this one here, we will actually be able to see
at least if everything's working fine.
So let's decrease and alright.
So we reached our 600 pixel breakpoint here
and so now we have the small image here.
So, perfect.
And so now, as you hover here, this image,
you can see that the current source, well it doesn't move,
okay, but it says that the current source
is logo green small 2x
and that's exactly what we want to happen, right?
So, perfect.
We could now of course go ahead and add another source
element with another media query here
and then add more and more different versions of the image.
But I don't believe that to be necessary.
So that is this image here which
is now working just fine so we just
implemented the responsive images here,
which is really great and we didn't have
more images to work up on.
Now these ones here, I'm not going to do them, okay?
Because once again, this is more to show you
all of the technology and not to waste time
optimizing every single aspect of the page.
What I'm going to do though in the next lecture
is to apply responsive images to these three images
and by then, we're going to use resolution switching
instead of art direction because we do that
in a slightly different way.
So that's what we're going to do next and so let's
now move on to the next lecture.